Every week I talk to B2B and SAS
companies. And one of the most common
questions I get is how can I quickly
drive pipeline from SEO? Or how can I
turn the traffic from organic search
into pipeline and revenue? And I
completely understand. Perhaps SEO and
driving organic leads, pipeline signups,
and revenue sounds great on paper, but
you just don't want to wait 12 months to
see results. Perhaps you're already
seeing some traffic from SEO, but you're
frustrated that it's not converting into
inbound leads. And that's why in this
video, I'm going to share three of the
quickest ways you can drive pipeline and
revenue from your SEO program, oftent
times as quick as 90 days. I'll share
the exact strategies we use for B2B and
SAS companies to drive millions in
pipeline and revenue from organic
search. And stick around to the end and
I'll share a bonus tip. First up, we've
got targeting hyper niche money
keywords. So whilst many companies will
try and go for traffic costs, targeting
super competitive search terms that
might take months or even years to rank,
they'll often neglect these money
keywords. So often have less traffic,
less searches per month, but they have a
ton of commercial value. They have super
high sales intent. They're often
neglected because bigger companies might
think they're not going to drive inbound
leads, but these money searches can
often rank super quick and drive these
high sales intent prospects that are
much more likely to turn into leads,
signups, or demos. And often times, you
might look up these hyperniche money
keywords on SEO tools like Semrush or
Hrefs and think, "Well, Sam, they've
only got 100 searches per month or
possibly even less." But if they have
that buying intent behind them, they're
certainly worth targeting. And not only
that, they can rank way faster than more
competitive searches. So, let's dive in
to some examples. I'll share some
examples for our client check writers.
They're a B2B SAS in HR and payroll
software. We actually got them some wins
as quick as 90 days from starting with
this exact strategy. So to set the
scene, when we started working with
check writers, they hadn't done any SEO
previously. So it was going to be an
uphill battle to rank against some of
the giants in the HR and payroll
software game. And if we look at some of
the competitive keywords, like for
example, best HR software, that gets
11,000 searches globally roughly on
Google. It's going to be a competitive
one to rank, possibly taking many
months, even years to get the organic
number one spot. So instead, we want to
implement our niche hypertargeted
strategy. So, one great strategy
straight away is we know in B2B tech
services and software often folks move
away from their incumbent from their
current vendor because they might get
frustrated with things like perhaps the
pricing goes skyh high when you add more
users. Perhaps they lack customer
support or success or perhaps the the
product or the offering lacks features
or maybe something else. That is why
going for searches like alternatives,
competitor-based keywords, competitor
alternative, competitor pricing,
competitor reviews, competitor one
versus competitor 2 work especially
well. So in this case, we knew that
payor were one of the competitors in
this sector. So we went after the payor
alternative search term. We actually got
them ranked. We got check writers
ranking number one in this case within a
month of publishing for this top eight
payor alternatives article. And you
might be thinking, Sam, it only shows 70
global search volume per month. Well,
yeah, but someone's not searching for a
payor alternative for fun. They're not
doing it for information gathering.
They're doing it because they're
genuinely frustrated with their current
vendor and they're looking for
alternative options. So as check writers
in this example are organic number one,
someone might quickly land on the
article, skim through, see check writers
is positioned as the number one
alternative, see some examples of the
product, look at the features, pricing,
etc., and then put them either into
their consideration list and raise them
with their exec team, or even grab a
demo straight away. And another great
example for check writers is a keyword
that involves one of their main
offerings they want to sell into one of
their main money niches, one of the main
money industries they've historically
sold well into and want to drive more
inbound demos for their sales team. In
this case, it was best HR software for
nonprofits. And again, looking on HFS,
roughly 400 organic searches globally
per month. So not tons and tons of
volume, but the keyword difficulty was
two out of 100. So reasonably easy.
We've managed to get them organic one in
the AI overview.
And if we look at that article format
again, top HR software solutions for
nonprofits. And we position check
writers organic number one
with examples of why folks choose them
over competitors, weaving in examples of
the product and then a fair comparison
of the other vendor options underneath.
And not only has that got a top spot in
Google's AI overviews, also if you
search on chat GBT or LLMs, I just did a
quick search HR software for nonprofits.
We can see check writers cited number
one also with a link to that page. So
how the heck do you identify these hyper
niche gold mine keywords that are going
to drive these high sales intent
prospects to your website in the
quickest time possible with SEO and
organic search? Well, the best way to do
it is to leverage customer research and
understand a few main things. So there's
four main things that you need to map
out. If we take check writers as an
example again, the first thing we want
to map out is what are all the main ways
that our dream clients can refer to our
solution. So in their case it could be
HR platform, HR software, HR tools or
payroll software, payroll tools, payroll
platform and a bunch of other variations
that folks could refer to it. That's the
first section. Second section are what
are the main industries we've
historically sold really well into.
They've got the problem we solve. They
are motivated to solve it. They've got
cash to easily invest in our offer and
they've historically bought well into
our service. So for check writers, this
could be education, schools, HR,
nonprofits, and a bunch of others.
Thirdly is what are the main competitors
that always come up in sales
conversations almost that frustrating
level where it's like oh not that
competitor again. So in check writer's
case it could be ADP, it could be
paychecks and again there's a bunch of
other competitors that they've shared.
And then column four is your dream
clients jobs to be done, their
struggling moments, the main problems
they face that causes them to reach out
to a company like yours or what they use
right now that's becoming so frustrating
that they need to find a new better way.
So maybe they're trying to do something
in Google Sheets or Google Docs or an
Excel sheet and they're getting
frustrated and you can position your
product as a painkiller. So, for check
writers, it could be how to run
bi-weekly payroll or how to prevent
payroll fraud or how to run HR using
Google Docs or maybe how to run my
payroll for my business using Google
Sheets or something like that. If you
know that these are things that they
often bring up on sales calls or
prospecting calls, you know they're
struggling moments. You know, your
product is well suited to fix those
specific pain points, then those are the
ones we can drill into and map out. And
then once you've done all this research,
I'd recommend bringing in your sales
team, your customer success team in the
process and you know the main offers,
the main way folks refer to your
solution, the main industries that you
want to tap into, the main competitors
and your dream client's job to be done,
their problems, their struggling
moments, those four main things. You can
stack those together to make your hyper
niche focus money keywords. So with all
this intel, we stack those together to
make our longtail hyperniche money
keywords. And I'll show you an example
if you're watching along. Let's look at
some of the commercial value. I've just
fired up Hrefs, looked at some of the
top ranking keywords we've got for check
writers that have commercial value. So
we can see like an employee payment
software. Gusto payroll versus
paychecks. Those are two common
competitors. We can see best HR software
for nonprofits. ADP versus paychecks.
Again, best payroll software for
nonprofits organizations. Paychecks
versus Gusto. Nonprofit HR software.
Easy to use payroll software. all of
those terms leveraging that longtail,
leveraging the niche we're going after
or leveraging competitors. They're all
ranking organic position one. And these
are the kind of money search terms that
you can look at as well as a bunch of
others to rank pretty fast. And often
times once you map out your hyper niche
money keyword, you look at what's
ranking already and you look to
completely blow that out the water,
whether it's an article, a listical,
comparison page, versus page, landing
page, whatever it may be, and make your
page one up in terms of completely
blowing out whatever is ranking number
one already in terms of making it more
useful, more helpful, more educational,
positioning your product as a
painkiller, layering plenty of trust
signals, whether that's embedding an
author bio, social proof, client quotes,
client case study videos, if it's a
competitor page, showing case study
videos of why that client and move from
a competitor to you and how you stand
out in the marketplace and essentially
positioning your product, your solution
or your service as a trustworthy source
and handling common questions,
objections on the page, whether that's
with an FAQ section or similar. So
essentially showing that Google and the
internet in general that your page is
the most helpful, trustworthy, reliable
source on the web. Before I get into the
second strategy, if you're looking to
outrank your competitors and make SEO a
reliable channel to drive pipeline and
revenue through Google organic and now
LLMs, why not grab a call with me over
at breakingb2b.com or hit the link in
the description below and we can chat,
see if we're a good fit to get your
results with SEO. Right, back to the
video. So, strategy two is looking for
quick wins. So, this is all about
looking for pages that already exist on
your website that have commercial value,
i.e. They're likely to drive high sales
intent prospects. You've already got
them built on the site. Perhaps they're
lagging maybe bottom of page one, page
two on Google, but with some content
work, with some optimizations, with some
updates, maybe with some backlinks, they
can start ranking top organically and
driving some leads. So, you can use a
tool like HFS or similar, you can hit
the opportunities tab, you can go to
lowhanging fruit keywords within there.
All right, so we're looking at the quick
win search terms. We filtered it on HFS
to pages that are ranking organic
position 4 to 15. And if we flick down
here and look at some of these, we
filter them by position. We've got
paychecks alternative. So going for a
competitor alternative keyword is right
now organic position 7 globally or in
the US it looks like. And if we go to
that specific page, this was actually
published quite recently. So July 24th,
so at the time of recording now we're
start of September. So it's only been
live for about a month. So considering
this is ranking organic position 7, it's
only been live for about a month or so.
That's pretty decent. So, typically I'd
recommend giving pages 90 days from
publishing as that's what we tend to see
it takes for organic rankings to sell
cuz this could still go up. But let's
pretend it's been live for 90 days since
publishing. In that case, as we've got
number seven, what I'd probably do is
I'd compare it. I benchmark it to what's
ranking organic number one. And I'd look
to completely blow that page out the
water. So, it might be that maybe number
one ranking has got maybe eight
alternatives to paychecks. In that case,
I think I don't want to revisit anytime
soon. Let's do 10 alternatives to
paychecks. kind of beef up our content,
make it a more useful resource. We can
see on our article already at the start,
we've got a quick summary. Why would you
look to move beyond paychecks? Why
listen to us with a custom review video?
What is paychecks? Then it dives into
the top seven in this case where we
position check writers as number one.
Got a screenshot of the product. Maybe
we can leverage some more customer
research or sales call research here.
So, this is why customers choose us
opposed to the competition. These are
the problems we solve that they don't.
Here's where we stand out and so on and
so forth. And then as well as that, add
another couple options onto the flow. So
basically, we're making the page the
most useful page possible on the
internet for paychecks alternatives. So
if a prospect lands on this page, we can
say, "Look, we know you're perhaps
struggling with this." Maybe we go on
to, in this case, the paychecks G2 page
or the Capra page or their software
advice review page. We look at real
customer reviews. We leverage those
insights in the article. We feed on it
specifically how our software does solve
those pain points that maybe customers
are moaning about on their G2 page
specifically. And then we give a super
fair comparison of all the other
competitors below ours. Making sure when
we talk about a product, we are
positioning it well. We're showing
screenshots. We're showing it in action.
Maybe the aha moment with gifts and then
making it easy for folks to to book that
relevant next step. So yeah, use a tool
like HFS or Semrush to find those quick
win opportunities. Filter it to
commercial value. Look for ones that are
closest to ranking to top organically.
Look to blow whatever's ranking top
completely out of the water in terms of
helpfulness, trust signals, social
proof, making sure it's genuinely useful
to the end prospect. And of course,
following SEO best practices from a
technical perspective, so having the
keyword in the URL, in this case,
checkrise.com/blog/paycheckshen
alternatives, making sure your money
keyword is in the H1. So, we found the
top seven paychecks alternatives, modern
HR teams. Making sure you've got that
author bio. Making sure all the sections
are nicely split out with H2s and it's
easy for both LLMs to pick up. Go super
niche on kind of dream client problems,
goals, jobs to be done, and like I say,
positions your software or your tool or
your service as that solution and
painkiller. Next up, we've got making
sure your website is a 24/7 sales rep.
Converting your hard earned organic
traffic into a steady flow of signups,
demos, or booked calls. There's two huge
mistakes I see with SEO. One is not
doing customer research. So your content
might rank but it's not going to
resonate with your dream clients
problems, frustrations, motivations,
jobs to be done, or goals. Or the other
thing is doing SEO but failing to build
out or craft out a design on your site's
main pages, whether that's articles,
landing pages, listical, comparison
pages, and not leveraging your product.
Having clear call to actions, showing
the product in action, showing plenty of
social proof, trust signals, examples
that you can deliver results, and then
making it super easy for folks to take a
relevant next step. Whether that is
signing up, whether that's checking out
your YouTube channel, checking out your
podcast, whether that's grabbing a demo,
booking a call, whatever the relevant
next step is, whether that is a
topfunnel article or a bottomfunnel
article to drive conversions. So,
sharing the same theme, looking at the
check writer site for in this case,
we're looking at a competitor
alternative page. It just works.
Alternatives that we've recently
published that's ranking nicely already.
Like I say, competitor pages, competitor
alternative pages, super good attract
super high intent prospects. No one
searches for an alternative to a
competitor for fun. They do it cuz
they're typically annoyed with the
vendor and looking for alternative
solutions or they're weighing up options
to compare. So these pages can rank
fast, but you want to make sure the
design is rock solid. So typically you
want the hero area where you'll have the
H1. So the title of the article in this
case top eight just works alternatives
flexible HR and payroll. You'll have the
author with a nice image of the author
and the the name of the author and the
publish date. Then if we look at the
formatting in this case we've got a
fixed sticky menu. So we've got a menu
nav that sticks to the top. We've got
our main menu links. They're not
cluttered. They're easy to to see the
main page of the site. We've got a fixed
call to action in the top right in this
case for request meeting but yours could
be free sign up or request a demo. We've
also on the lefth hand side of our
articles got a fixed table of contents
so it's easy for you to navigate to
whatever section of the article or in
this case listical you want and
underneath that we've got a fixed call
to action on the left side for in this
case fix your payroll or HR issues and
then you can easily schedule a call with
their team. And as we scroll down the
article, plenty of social proof,
customer quotes weaved in. In this case,
because we're providing an alternative
to just works, we're showing an example
of just works. As you scroll down, we
introduce in the listical check writers
is number one. We've got a nice
screenshot visual of the product in
action, but yours could be a gift of the
product, maybe a video, or maybe even
weaved in a demo. And you might even
want to when you talk about why folks
choose your product or your service and
talk about key features, maybe weave in
a case study video of why someone moved
from that competitor to yourselves. And
then as we do a comparison of the other
competitors in the listicle, we've got a
screenshots of their product and a fair
comparison. And as we scroll right
through, typically we have an ending and
then an option, another CTA at the
bottom. And then on the other end of the
spectrum, if we look at one of Check
Writers landing pages, so in this case,
we've got HR software for schools. We
can see a nice hero area or nice banner
area at the top where it's got their
heading one title. So streamline your
school's HR management with Check
Writers. We've got a nice image in that
hero area in that banner area of one of
their clients with a nice quote, nice
testimonial. We've got the call to
action within the hero area. So get
started, which opens their demo form.
Straight underneath, we've got trust
signals. So clients worked with that are
relevant to the niche, to the landing
page. So we're taking the problem
agitation solution PAS problem agitation
solution framework here. So these are
the common challenges that you might be
facing with your HR software or with
your HR issues. Manual administrative
work, inaccurate payroll, slow
recruitment on boarding and this is why
customer research is so important for
landing pages too. So you can leverage
those problems folks might be facing and
then we dive into how specifically the
solution the software helps them
streamline your payroll, comprehensive
management, self-service and all this
good stuff. So laying out all these
features exactly how we can hit those
pain points. And then more social proof
what our clients say. So a nice carousel
of client testimonials. We've got
another CTA. So if you're ready,
schedule a call. And then at the bottom
we've got FAQs section split in a nice
carousel. So you can easily click each
FAQ to expand them. And these are
leveraging kind of real questions we'll
get on sales schools like how do you
store data? How can you specifically
help? Is it suitable for small or large
educational institutions? All these
questions are hyper relative to the
niche that we're talking about or the
solution we're talking about within the
landing page. All in a nicely laid out
visual format, clear call to actions,
plenty of proof, plenty of examples, and
addressing basically making this a 24/7
sales rep. Even addressing common
questions we get on sales calls all
within the page to make our marketing
and our sales team's life easier as well
as rank effectively on SEO and drive
pipeline. A huge mistake you can do
here, especially on blog articles, is
craft an awesome page, but then when a
prospect lands on it, it's just a wall
of super heavy text. SEO goes well
beyond just optimizing for search. It's
thinking about customer research. So,
your content is going to resonate with
dream clients motivations, problems, and
goals, and also making it enjoyable.
It's visual. It's actually a nice page
to scroll through on mobile PC, and it's
going to encourage that conversion. And
now I've got the bonus tip and that is
building highquality niche relevant back
links as well as brand mentions.
Backlinks super important send trust
signals to Google and very important
when you're trying to rank for super
competitive keywords. So in check
writers example that might be best
payroll softwares or best HR software as
we talked about right at the start of
this episode super difficult to rank. So
that's where creating best-in-class
content and then reinforcing it with
niche relevant solid back links is going
to be worthwhile. And also getting brand
mentions is going to be super good
because they're important for LLMs like
chat GBT. Getting those brand mentions
is going to help you get cited. So I'll
share three quick tips on building niche
relevant solid back links that are going
to cost you next to no cash. First up is
actually looking out what's ranking
already. So in this case you could quite
literally go to Google and search to
carry on the check ride example to carry
on the HR example. You could search best
HR software or best HR tools and then
you could look at what are the listicles
that keep getting cited the top ranked
organic listicles and then you could
look for who actually published the
article and you could directly reach out
to that person. So maybe you message
them on LinkedIn or you find out where
they hang out. I'm a huge fan of weird
painfully short messages. So if this
person that published the article or
maybe even I go to the site founder or
their marketing leader whoever's
relevant to reach out to. So, if they
were on LinkedIn, I'd send them a
painfully short personalized request
like, "Hey, Chloe," or "Hey, Steve, had
a weird idea for your article. Are you
against a quick chat? Or are you against
a conversation?" They'd probably accept
the invite. They'd probably respond back
with, "Sam, what are you talking about?"
Or, "Sam, what what would you like to
discuss?" And that's when I'd try and
stand out from the crowd. If I was
really keen to get this placement like
top three within their listical which is
going to help me with LLM visibility
because LLMs like chatbt love to site
listicles like top X software, top X
services, top X solutions, they love to
site them. It's also going to give us
that Google boost with a backlink and
potentially drive direct leads cuz this
page ranks well already that we're
trying to get featured on. If people see
us top three, they might just put us
into their short list or maybe directly
inquire or sign up straight away. So to
stand out for the crowd, I'll send them
a Loom video. And in that video, I'll
have their article, their top x listical
in the background and say, "Thanks for
putting this together. Actually had a a
bit of a weird idea. I wondered if
there's any chance we could get our
service or our solution or our software
position top three. And in exchange, I'm
more than happy to feature you within
our own article or do a specific guest
article for you. or maybe you invite
them onto your podcast or some kind of
value exchange where you're inviting
them to an interview or getting them a
backlink on your website or featuring
them on one of your articles or
something that's going to be equally
useful to them where you don't have to
pay money. I've done this many times for
breaking B2B to get us featured on SAS
SEO listicles or B2B SEO listicles in
the past and it does work. It does take
some manual efforts but it is a great
way to earn some solid placements and
lists. There might be a few that are
paytoplay, but there is many cases where
you can sort that value exchange to get
those placements. So, second way is
actually a lot quicker, a lot easier, a
lot lower lift to get solid back links
and brand mentions. So, if you've got
someone in your team, maybe your
founder, maybe an exec, maybe a
marketing or revenue leader or whoever's
relevant that's done past press that's
done past podcast interviews or done
past PR or article interviews or
similar, grab their LinkedIn profile,
copy and paste their LinkedIn profile
URL, cut and paste it into HFS or
Seamrush.
Then hit the backlink tab and look for
all the websites that are linking to
their LinkedIn profile of whoever from
your team is often doing press. Then you
can filter it to highest domain rating
within HFS or Semrush, whatever SEO tool
you use. And then you can look for all
the sites that are linking to your exact
team members LinkedIn profile. Look for
any of the ones that aren't actually
backlinking to one of your money
keywords or money pages or mentioning
your brand. And then in my case, if we
scroll through, I can see companies like
WordStream, super high domain rating of
90. They've cited me in a recent article
of SEO trends for 2025. they've
mentioned my LinkedIn profile. So, I
might find out whoever the author was of
the article. I might do that manual
outreach strategy I just shared for the
listical placements. Very similar
process. Find out whoever runs the site
or whoever's the author of that post.
Send them that unusual painfully short
connection request. Do a Loom video with
the article in the background and see in
this case they've already featured your
exec or yourself or your founder. So,
just say thanks very much for featuring
me and mentioning my LinkedIn profile.
Wondered if instead or as well as you
could include our focus keyword here.
mention our brand and on that focus
keyword link it back to this focus page
that we're trying to boost up back links
for. Most of the time they'll be happy
to do it. It's a quick tweak for them.
It's low lift. They've already got the
content there. You just want them to
mention your brand in your category. So
if we follow on the check writer
solution, maybe it's please mention
check writers. Please mention best HR
software for nonprofits and link it back
to this landing page that we're trying
to rank for. It's going to give you a
bit of a boost in the LLM because it
mentions brands. Also going to help with
SEO and Google organic with that solid
backlink. a really nice low leverage win
and often there's a bunch that you can
find and reach out to for for these
quick wins. And the last one is looking
to guest on YouTube shows, podcast,
niche relevant shows. I'm doing this I'm
talking about this all the time on
YouTube on my podcast. I'm doing this
myself once or twice a week. I'll look
to guest on industry relevant niche
relevant podcasts. So in my case, this
is SAS marketing podcast, B2B marketing
podcasts and similar cuz that's my
audience. I'm going after B2B marketers,
SAS founders, SAS marketers, etc. So, if
those folks are listening to these kind
of shows or watching these kind of
episodes, then I can get in front of
that captive audience. Plus, I can get
an SEO boost. So, if you go on to a
site, listen.com, you can type in your
niche. Yours might be finance,
accounting, sports, fintech, whatever it
is, type it in. Mine's B2B marketing in
this case or SAS marketing. I can
actually see Breaking B2B, my podcast
ranking top here nicely. But yeah, you
can filter it to the top list and shows
like top 1%, top 5%, top 10%, etc. You
can see exactly who hosts the show and
then you can reach out to you can make a
spreadsheet yourself. Make a short list
of the top shows you want to guest on.
You can do my exact outreach strategy
I've just outlined. So find whoever
hosts the show on whatever platform they
use, possibly LinkedIn. Do that
personalized request. Send them a Loom
video. In this case, share that you're
enjoying the show. Maybe mention a
specific episode you liked. Share exact
tactics that you could share on the show
that's going to be valuable to their
audience and see if they'd be up for
having you on the podcast or YouTube
channel or YouTube show. Once you do a
great show, make sure it's super
tactical, helpful, useful to their
audience. And then when they publish the
show onto their website, ask for a brand
mention like we talked about and a
backlink to one of your money keywords
and money pages. And not only that, it
gives you some SEO value. It will give
you some LLM visibility with a brand
mention. Give you a bit of a PR boost,
potentially get some more followers on
your LinkedIn or similar. Plus, you
could get potential. I've got a bunch of
inbounds as well over the years from
folks that have either listened to me or
watched me on niche relevant shows
around B2B marketing, SAS marketing, SAS
SEO, and so on. Because when someone's
listening to you or watching you for 20
to 30 minutes, it builds up that extra
layer of trust and can potentially drive
those inmarket prospects that believe
you are a trustworthy source to help
them to drive those inbound leads,
signups, or even potential booked calls.
And there you have it. Those are some of
the quickest strategies to drive
pipeline, often as fast as 90 days for
your B2B or SAS company with SEO. But of
course, this is high level and there's a
lot more depth to the strategy process
and execution to start driving pipeline
and revenue through Google organic
search and now LLMs. So, if you maybe
lack the resources in house, but want to
start taking SEO seriously, why not grab
a call with me over at breakingb2t2b.com
and we can talk through exactly where
you're at, see if we're a good match and
see if we can start driving results with
SEO. That's breaking.com
or hit the link in the description
below. Or if you're not ready yet, why
not grab my 90 days to revenue B2B SEO
playbook? Head over to breaking
b2t2b.com and hit the newsletter tab. Or
you can follow along with the Breaking
B2B podcast where I share actionable
tips each and every week and I interview
SAS marketing leaders to share their
growth strategies. And with that, I
shall catch you on the next one. Cheers.